---
layout: pub
title: Model-Free Tracker for Multiple Objects Using Joint Appearance and Motion Inference
author: Liu, Chongyu and Yao, Rui and Rezatofighi, S Hamid and Reid, Ian and Shi, Qinfeng
paper_link: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8765607
year: 2019
publisher: IEEE Transactions on Image Processing
comments: true
category: blog
---

# Abstract

Model-free tracking is a widely accepted approach to track an arbitrary object in a video using a single frame annotation with no further prior knowledge about the object of interest. Extending this problem to track multiple objects is really challenging because: 1) the tracker is not aware of the objects' type while trying to distinguish them from background (detection task) and 2) the tracker needs to distinguish one object from other potentially similar objects (data association task) to generate stable trajectories. In order to track multiple arbitrary objects, most existing model-free tracking approaches rely on tracking each target individually by updating their appearance model independently. Therefore, in this scenario they often fail to perform well due to confusion between the appearance of similar objects, their sudden appearance changes and occlusion. To tackle this problem, we propose to use both appearance and motion models, and to learn those jointly using graphical models and the deep neural networks features. We introduce an indicator variable to predict sudden appearance change and/or occlusion. When these happen, our model does not update the appearance model thus avoiding using the background and/or incorrect object to update the appearance of the object of interest mistakenly, and relies on our motion model to track. Moreover, we consider the correlation among all targets, and seek the joint optimal locations for all targets simultaneously as a graphical model inference problem. We learn the joint parameters for both appearance model and motion model in an online fashion under the framework of LaRank. Experiment results show that our method achieved superior performance compared to the competitive methods.

[IEEE link](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8765607)