---
layout: pub
title: Mot20-A benchmark for multi object tracking in crowded scenes
author: Patrick Dendorfer, Hamid Rezatofighi, Anton Milan, Javen Shi, Daniel Cremers, Ian Reid, Stefan Roth, Konrad Schindler, Laura Leal-Taixé
year: 2019
comments: true
category: blog
---

# Abstract

Standardized benchmarks are crucial for the majority of computer vision applications. Although leaderboards and ranking tables should not be over-claimed, benchmarks often provide the most objective measure of performance and are therefore important guides for research. The benchmark for Multiple Object Tracking, MOTChallenge, was launched with the goal to establish a standardized evaluation of multiple object tracking methods. The challenge focuses on multiple people tracking, since pedestrians are well studied in the tracking community, and precise tracking and detection has high practical relevance. Since the first release, MOT15, MOT16, and MOT17 have tremendously contributed to the community by introducing a clean dataset and precise framework to benchmark multi-object trackers. In this paper, we present our MOT20benchmark, consisting of 8 new sequences depicting very crowded challenging scenes. The benchmark was presented first at the 4thBMTT MOT Challenge Workshop at the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference (CVPR) 2019, and gives to chance to evaluate state-of-the-art methods for multiple object tracking when handling extremely crowded scenarios.

Comments: The sequences of the new MOT20 benchmark were previously presented in the CVPR 2019 tracking challenge (arXiv: 1906.04567). The differences between the two challenges are:-New and corrected annotations-New sequences, as we had to crop and transform some old sequences to achieve higher quality in the annotations.-New baselines evaluations and different sets of public detections

[arXiv link](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2003.09003)